Let us write a program using conditional statements so the first program that we would like us to find
the greatest of two number.
that is a maximum of two numbers.
Suppose I have two numbers x and y then I have to find out which one is greater.
So it's very simple.
I have to check them compare them.
If x is greater than that values greater.
If it is not then definitely Y is greater.
So if and else so I have to just check the condition that is if x is greater than y.
So for this writing this program will follow the same steps that we have used.
These are steps in the previous programs also that is taking input processing whatever the processing
is there then output giving the output.
So here in our program what is the input.
So we have these two values as input.
Right.
So we have to take the input then process.
Here we don't have any processing to do.
Just check the condition then output in output the same values x and y right? either X or Y.
Let us draw a flow chart then we will write algorithm.
Then we would like to program focus.
So first I would draw a flow chart.
Let us start flowchart starts.
Then what is the first thing.
Input Output.
So I should take two numbers.
So I should give a message using input output box and say that enter two numbers print and enter two numbers.
Then I should read the numbers.
So here I will use variables that are X and Y the next.
After reading these values I should check which one is greater.
So which one means, is x greater than y?.
Then I should check this one so the condition block here.
If what is the condition x is greater than y if true it will take this direction and if it false It will
take this dedication right.
So you can take any direction.
So here true.
If it is true then what we have to do here simply we will display the greater number.
So who is it that if x is greater than x is greater.
So I should print a message that X is great.
So here I will directly print max number is or Max is X right.
Then false.
If it is false then who is greater.
y is greater,  so maximum is y.
So print here Max is y.
Then after this, this is over, output is over.
This is itself is output.
So in this example there is no processing right.
Then after this end of the flow chart so it will go on stop.
So from that side also it will come and join this one.
This is a flow chart for finding greatest or maximum of two numbers.
Now the same thing.
I will write it as an algorithm here.
Then afterwards I will write it as a program.
So algorithm.
I will call the algorithm name as max.
now begin, what I have to do.
I have already shown you that these things you can directly write it here.
but  we have if also so we will learn how to read.
If so let us write down so first print and enter two numbers.
Okay print Enter two numbers and then read X and Y this is over semicolons you want to give
or dont give.
That's up to you.
This is your own pseudocode right.
Then afterwards after this if is there.
So watch this carefully.
If x is greater than Y.
X is greater than y then if x is greater then y, as it is I have written and then I have written then also.
So it's a choice.
If you dont want to write 'then' you can skip it also but it looks like a English statement.
If x is greater than y then begin.
So what is the inside.
If you have to print this one.
So print Max is X that's.
So this is end of if block.
Now I have to start else block.
So I need not write end here.
And here I will write else because it's a part of, continuation of if.
Right.
If Then Else, else what  I have to do .
print Max is y so print Max is y.
Then after this say end and so from here if has started and if has ended here.
So inside that only Else is also there.
So whatever is there before else that comes under if  after else this belonged to the else's block.
Then after this there's nothing.
end of a program so simply right.
end here. that begins and ends here.
So this is an algorithm written using pseudocode.
So here in this video we learn one thing how to write if.
Right.
And if you want to put the bracket it's a choice.
It's not C++ in C++ we have to be very strict.
Now next we will write down a  c++ program for this one so looking at this algorithm I will convert it into a
c++ program.
So let us start,  here you know that we have to write down hash include then using namespace and the main
functions why would you keep it ready.
So this is ready.
I have made the main function everything is ready now I have to write down this part that is enter two numbers
numbers.
read numbers and display.
So for this I need two variables.
So first of all I will declare two variables that is integer X and Y that I should take two number.
So for that I should give a message.
So for print I should say C out so c out enter two numbers C out enter 2  numbers.
The next reading two values cin x and y.
Now the important part if and else part.
So I will write on here if and else, if X is greater than Y.
So watch this how to write it. if  X is greater than y then brackets start.
So this is true then I should print that X is a great or maximum is X so c out Max is X Max
is and again insertion operation then x.
So they move these things.
This is for if then else again the end of if block then incidents say C out Max is y.
The end of this one say return zero.
End of the function.
So that's the end of Main function.
So this is how a program looks like I'll remove this.
So that's all this is the program.
So there is a coding exercise available for this one do this coding exercise then after that you will find a
demo for this program you can watch the demo and practice this one on your P.C. on your machine do it
by yourself.
So is the first program on conditional statement.
So further in the coming videos will find more and more programs on conditional statements.